<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arsène Lupin</i>. By Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc. (Doubleday, Page &amp; <abbr>Co.</abbr>). <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Hollow Needle</i>. By Maurice Leblanc. Translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos and published by Doubleday, Page &amp; <abbr>Co.</abbr> <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arsène Lupin</i>, by Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc, and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Hollow Needle</i>, by Maurice Leblanc, translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. <a href="chapter-4.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Personal advertisements in the French newspapers are charged by the line, not by the word; and consequently nearly every word is clipped down to two, three or four letters. <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Since <abbr>M.</abbr> Lenormand left the detective service, two other criminals have escaped by the same door, after shaking off the officers in charge of them; the police kept both cases dark. Nevertheless, it would be very easy, if this communication is absolutely required, to remove the useless bolt on the other side of the door, which enables the fugitive to cut off all pursuit and to walk away quietly through the passage leading to Civil Court 7 and through the corridor of the Chief President’s Court. <a href="chapter-6.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The murder of Baron Dorf, that mysterious and disconcerting affair, will one day be the subject of a story which will give an idea of Arsène Lupin’s astonishing qualities as a detective. <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The French slang expression for its prison-van or “black Maria.” <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arsène Lupin</i>. By Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc. <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arsène Lupin</i>. By Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc. <a href="chapter-13.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
						<p>
							<span>Our days go by, adrift, adrift,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Borne along by current swift</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That urges them toward the strand</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Where not until we die, we land.</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
